GRASS (Geographic Resources Analysis Support System) is a free
Geographic Information System (GIS) used for geospatial data
management and analysis, image processing, graphics/maps production,
spatial modeling, and visualization.  GRASS is an official project of
the Open Source Geospatial Foundation.

The following options may be enabled:

  mariadb        for mariadb (or mysql) database support

  postgresql     for postgresql database support
                 (requires postgresql)

  sqlite         for sqlite database support

  unixODBC       for ODBC support
                 (requires unixODBC)

  gmath          for the GRASS gmath library
                 (requires both blas and lapack)

  netcdf         for netcdf export
                 (requires netcdf)

  libLAS         for LAS LiDAR file support
                 (requires libLAS)

  opencl         for OpenCL GPU acceleration
                 (requires nvidia-driver or amd-app-sdk and
                 suitable GPU)

The options you require must be specified by setting the variable
ENABLE before running grass.SlackBuild, for example

  ENABLE="sqlite,netcdf" ./grass.SlackBuild

ffmpeg is an optional runtime dependency for the Animation tool
(g.gui.module).

If you need to make grass libraries available to other applications
(e.g. qgis) do this:

  echo /opt/grass/lib >> /etc/ld.so.conf && ldconfig

THIS IS OLD README ... REDONE BELOW! W.H. 5/23/2026

Old build script was modified to build newer version (8.4.2). The latest version
(8.5.0 at the time) requires python version 3.10, so that was skipped because
Slackware 15.0 has python at 3.9.
In the new build script ALL options are turned on except --with-opendwg.
Required packages were built with their optional dependency.

The new script writes ld configure file to /etc/ld.so.conf.d/grass.conf
then calls ldconfig in doinst.sh script.

For the new script "ENABLE=" is void and meaningless.

NOTE: gdal-grass.SlackBuild:

To avoid circular dependency between gdal and grass, gdal-grass drivers were
separated upstream.
I wrote gdal-grass.SlackBuild to build those drivers. You should install the
drivers after installing grass package.

